This book is wholly mediocre, although sprinkled with striking quotes. Published in 2002, it seems to be an original idea: how do old gods make sense in America; how would they translate? Gaiman takes a stab at it in a way that falls more than a bit flat. However, this work surely inspired, at least in part, Rick Riordan's later "Percy Jackson" series about the Greco-Roman pantheon... it itself did not flourish, but that later one did.

The book is defined by consistent and inexcusable lapses in explanation and context. The reader, for hundreds of pages, is left in the dark, completely unsure as to why or how things are happening; what order there is is clarified only in the end and epilogue, and even then the amount of clarification is underwhelming. Constantly, we flash to new situations and learn different things about different people and gods in ways that hardly seem connected; an early chapter, for instance, is used to set up the context of some sex goddess on the Las Vegas Strip... only to be completely ignored until the end, when she's killed in a few paragraphs. Why?

There is no common thread, no real theme that ties the book together or brings the reader into the plot. Instead of being enchanted and involved, the reader instead just passively goes along with Shadow's journey. No emotional attachment is cultivated; I had to push through to finish it, and even the ending seems disjointed. There's definitely something here; it reads like a first or second draft, though.

The idea is a good one; and the idea constitutes the bulk of the good in this book. It's one taken in part by Riordan, who actually established a universe with rules and order and logic and emotional investment. There's an interesting contrast there, for sure: a good idea can't make a good book all on its own, and Gaiman here demonstrates that point excellently, though inadvertently.
