This book is quite good; I can see why it and its series have landed as a classic. That said, it's incredibly dense and confusing to start... one has to get almost halfway through the first "book" before things really begin to be comprehensible. Such a launch into descriptions and foreign vocabulary! Definitely not a smooth start. This would be quite difficult and not so enjoyable to read in multiple sittings; in one or two, however, things keep in your recent memory and it proves an excellent work. Really not sure how it got to print with that atrocious beginning, though!

It's an interesting take on religion, duty, and prophecy. Set in a neo-feudalistic galactic society within an interplay of barons and emperors, all ruled and directed by a supreme capitalistic monopoly, elements of an ancient religion (mysticism, destiny, and superstition) thrive. It's almost a combination of the varied cultures upon modern Earth today: some capitalistic, ruling all; some feudalistic, "stuck in the Middle Ages" yet with duly consolidated power; and a mish-mash of religions. Arrakis could be compared to the Middle East should Dune be interpreted as a modern commentary: it is covered with sand, holds a resource that is completely vital to the wealth and survival of the entire civilization, and is steeped deep in religion (one whose words and pronunciations mimic Arabic, probably by no accident).

Overall, I'm glad I read it; there are many tidbits of wisdom in the pages, specifically regarding fear, religion, and self-control, that are inspiring and insightful. That said, Dune is certainly not for everybody!