To steal an idea from [Tim Urban](http://waitbutwhy.com/2015/11/the-cook-and-the-chef-musks-secret-sauce.html), it seems to me that what fueled Einstein's excellence was not excellent hardware (that is, copious intellgience) but rather a special brand of mental software—the unique way his brain and personal philosophy aligned, enabling him to see things others couldn't. His life was strewn with nonconformity, reliance on intuition, and an uncanny ability to think about things more clearly than others.

It's interesting how our culture tends to glorify figures like this. As I type this, I'm re-reading Ashlee Vance's "Elon Musk" biography, so that's fresh on my mind; the way both Einstein and Musk describe their own thought processes, as well as the tendency of the adulating public to lap up their every word and praise them to be "genuises," is strangely similar.

Is it really that hard to think orthagonally to cultural norms? If the things such figures as Einstein and Musk question are somehow inherent to established cultures, why are they celebrated for overturning such norms? And if the overturning of incorrect norms is to be praised, why? Might not that prompt loads of similar inquisition, stirring up trouble?

Perhaps it's only significant because physics (and engineering, in Musk's case) is a field whose norms are not familiar to most of us. It's gratifying to see some revolutionary come around and completely upset the popular notions of possibility and reality... as long as that's not a reality our _own_ mental models depend upon too much, of course. That would just be uncomfortable.

A bit more pessimistic of an explanation might go along these lines: people see things that are wrong, realize they _could_ be questioned and overturned, but it's self-gratifying to point to famous rebels like Einstein and say, "well, the reason he can question things is that _he's really smart!_" Then, we can go home—satisfied in our belief that asking hard questions or thinking originally is for _super smart_ people, not for us mere mortals. In this model, Einstein and Musk become popular because of what they represent: what _we_ could be and do by asking hard questions and following through, _if only_ we were "smart."

Because, from this biography, Einstein doesn't strike me as superhumanly smart. Rather, I think he was stubborn, original, independent, and curious... things that most of us could be, too, if we had the life experience and abnormal education of an Einstein. Thinking about unfulfilled personal potential is uncomfortable, isn't it?
