This book is magnificent, and should be read after Holt's "How Children Fail" for proper context and significance. It indirectly outlines a light of hope, a way to navigate forwards in creating an alternate educational system. As Holt's first book showed what not to do—patterns and methods that should be quashed and structurally eliminated—so this book enumerates qualities that should be sought and cultivated in an educational setting.

He shows that children learn best when left to explore in their own personal contexts. They expand their worldview naturally and at the right rate: an automatically individualized rate that the best curriculum writer could only dream of matching.

Given guidance, Holt argues that children can do anything. The task of an ideal educational institute, then, should be to provide a safety net for exploration and the ability to enable children as they blaze personal trails into the vast unknowns and curiosities of the world.

It is a tragedy, these words having been expressed so long ago yet hardly implemented: the irony of Holt's warning that "we should not scrap our present curriculum... then substitute \[other, more 'creative' subjects]" being completely ignored and even actively fulfilled is almost sad. There's so much potential, but actual fulfillment of Holt's ideas and observations is ultimately impossible in the forced teacher-teachee setting of almost all modern schools. A fundamental shift is required for students' exploratory natures to be fulfilled; one whose nature is hinted at by Kohn in his detailed attacks on the sacred lecture/grade/test format itself.

For students to be fulfilled, the classroom as we know it must be done away with. This may take many forms: Holt himself came in later writings to advocate leaving school altogether in "unschooling," a form of homeschooling. I see a way forward in which schools can ditch the modern classroom format but keep their place as a resource hub and collection of mentors; an extension of the ideas he later puts forth in "Instead of Education," yet distilled and plopped right back into "education" itself. Why let toxicity and propriety kidnap that noble title?
