This book discusses the psychological basis of addiction and its interpretation in our modern society, specifically the rise of behavioral addictions to things like the Internet, social media, and especially video games. Alter shows why digitally addictive phenomena like those in our everyday lives occur, how they are engineered, and that the only way to win many modern games—or to benefit from cutting-edge technology at all—is not to play.

It's a well-written summary and deposition of evidence; there's no drama or exorbitant predictions about some proto-dystopian future, but simply facts and theories behind perhaps the most relevant and intriguing social phenomenon of our times: the normalization of behavioral addiction.

Although Alter focuses largely on video game addiction in this book, I think his comments regarding social media are the most poignant and accurate. Video games, for all their flaws and benefits, _can_ be ignored; social media, in today's world, largely cannot.

In describing the extreme addictiveness of the video game "World of Warcraft", Alter conjures up the image of an alternate world not unlike that in the book "Ready Player One"; one's friends, acquaintances, hobbies, and life are wholly contained within an external and detached digital universe. In my opinion, the likes of Instagram and Facebook are even worse: they are an _extension_ of your real world into the digital, one from which abstinence is destructive. You can't cut the cord and go to a recovery camp; you have to be tied to your phone and media in order to be socially functional. Invitations, comments, communications; all are tied to the Facebook corporation for almost every adolescent alive... if you don't have an account, you're worse than nobody: your forgotten.

Moreover, the digitalization of friend groups and socialization makes marginalization incredibly easy. Everyone assumes that others have their own online friend groups; if you see someone consistently alone, there's no cause for worry because you assume they have a heavier load in their phone. You can't see the outsiders sitting along the walls on social media, because you're not even aware of their existence in the first place!

This kind of toxic bubble traps people together and enforces groupthink: if someone becomes a social pariah, they're forgotten and forcibly excluded from even normal sociality. Likewise, the median online image is one completely faked for the approval and envy of peers. These forays are successful; people are driven to extreme envy by the platforms to which they are chained, with little to no escape (at least in our generation).
