One lesson resounds from Isaacson's writing in this book: the necessity of a multifaceted skillset for success in the world of innovation. Specificially, that seems like a merger of three things: understanding of technology, familiarity with the humanities, and the ability to execute shrewdly in a business environment.

Over and over in the history of computing, people had ideas; however, it takes Isaacson's work as a historian to dig up those who didn't or couldn't do anything with their discoveries. All throughout this book, there's a surprising binary of people who are profiled: some are famous, whose emergent companies are household names... and some seem like recluses, having their specific vision or idea but not able to penetrate the modern lexicon.

Interestingly, the balance shifts as the book proceeds. Originally, computers are academic: they're the purview of mathematicians and the military, comprehensible to only that narrowly educated and interested elite. As time goes on, however, discoveries moved solidly _out_ of academica—for, as computing became more widespread and impactful, what mattered was _what impact your ideas had!_ Ideas were valualbe at the start, but execution took over. Hence, those executing in the technology business are astronomically more historically significant (at least to Isaacson) than current academia. The story has moved, the narrative shifted, from thought into action.

Innovation is a verb: at least to me, it's the action of changing something. In that sense, Ada Lovelace and the early computing pioneers were not so much innovators as architects laying the crucial groundwork on which the late 20th and 21st centuries' massive leaps would be built. Thank heavens they existed—but I think computers only started becoming a massively impactful social _innovation_ (outside of the military, where their significance is obvious) with the rise of Gates, Jobs, Silicon Valley, and the Internet.

Perhaps it's nitpicking, but it seems to me there's an important distinction there. Take climate change as a more tragic and modern example: we know it's a problem, we know why, we know how to stop it, but nothing is done. Not much industrial or political innovation (besides perhaps a neo-environmental movement focusing on carbon specifically) has actually emerged from the warnings of science; it would take a Green New Deal-style mobilization to say that that research had any significant innovative impact. Groundwork such as that of Lovelace is _constantly_ being laid in myriad academic fields; it's selection bias, though, to assume that that work in and of itself is unique—when what's really unique is the impact the pioneers' intellectual progeny had. _Every movement or massive change in history_ had some intellectual foundation, tautologically: to exist, they each had to start. What's special is not the start, though, but the end. That's why technology is worth writing and talking about; why this book even exists.
