Interesting. Not sure what to make of it. Very similar to 1984, in many ways—the idea of mindless groupthink, obedience to the state, the protagonist being pulled out by love and re-indoctrinated at the end—yet distinctly different, in an unsettling way. I liked 1984 better, but this might linger with me longer: Zamyatin presents a picture of this stable new society as reasonable and mathematic, an exception to the constant chaos of humanity. Because of that, more than anything else, we should fear this dystopia: because humans as machines are the least human of us all. We’re about to be replaced by machines; we need our individuality. 
 Why is it that in all dystopias the protagonist loses at the end? I guess it makes them more powerful, more pressing. The exception in this matter is Brave New World, to a frightening conclusion: that those who escape are the same breed as the ones who run the world. What do they say—the leader of a cult is the only sane one? Perhaps so.

Everyone is a number, in this book—not just has, is. Society dances in a “reasonable” and “mathematical” nature, full of order and uniformity and free of questions or uncertainty. Although the benefits of that seem at first something to which we (even I) might subscribe, Zamyatin lays out the true terror of that order: that humanity itself is excluded, gone, banished, suppressed. Our chaos and entropy and individuality is what makes us human; without problems, would we have identity? I think not—no, I fear not—and he validates that fear. 

If anything, after reading this I feel all the more spurred on to renovate education. If this is the future of uniform humans, it is an undesirable one: with the advent of complex machines, there is no purpose for uniformity in human experience. Why produce hordes of identically trained humans, when that’s exactly the opposite of what we need? Our entropy and interests and desires and different perspectives are what make us functionally different from machines; we need to lean into those, not shun them in fear. I worry that none—or not enough—are taking this view and path.